# Omnipresent take-home project - Front-End
Author: Chad Stewart

## Tools used

This project was built using:

<ul>
<li>React</li>
<li>Material-UI</li>
<li>Jest</li>
<li>Enzyme</li>
</ul>

## Running the project

Run 'npm install' in the project folder to install all dependecies. Run 'npm start' to run the project and 'npm test' to run all the tests for the project.

## Project Walkthrough

This project is a form that allows users to input data about employee information depending on the country selected.

### `Application State`

The application state is maintained using React Context. This was done because the main form component was split into two components and I didn't want to handle state in them individually.

### `Form component`

This is the main component of the form built to handle displaying of the form and the organization of data to be submitted. The form was built in Material UI so that there would be styled components without having to write much code and I was familiar with the library. This component also renders the SubForm component that handles rendering form elements based on specific countries.

### 'Submit for Form component'

The handleSubmit function handles form submittion and does validation that the form is not empty and there aren't any outstanding errors that needs to be handled by the user before creating the JSON object and console.logging it.

### `SubForm component`

This renders form components based on specific countries in the state. The object holding the countries and how they would be displayed is in this component because I assumed that if this were added to a larger project, that object would only be needed in this component. This component also has the holiday allownace form field because the country determines validation for that form field.

### `Utils folder`

This folder contains two files:

<ul>
<li>countries.js</li>
<li>inputValidation.js</li>
</ul>

countries.js is a file that was generated by a NodeJS script that took a JSON object from the Rest Countries API and outputted only the countries' names.

inputValidation handles all inputValidation for the various text fields by checking the stateVariable against a Regex. If it fails, it will call an errorFunction to update the error state based on messages sent to it in an errorMessages object that contains the stateVariable's name. This object is in the component that owns the form field.

### `Tests`

Tests were written on the App and Form component and the inputValidation file. The text fields were tested for functionality, display and input validation. There is an issue with Material UI's Select component in the way it was built that makes it difficult to test because it doesn't use a traditional onChange command and has it's actions split between onMouseDown and onClick for the specific list item's value. Was unable to figure out how to test it so I abandoned trying and moved on. inputValidation was tested by testing for the various states that could be sent to the function and checking which values the functions were called with based on the error state.

### `proposal folder`

The proposal that is to accompany this project is located here.

### `misc folder`

The all.json file that was downloaded from the Rest Countries API is here as well as the small NodeJS script written to pull out the country names and the a file, procedure.txt, that was created to serve as a guide when building this project.

<br />
<br />
<br />

Thank you very much for taking the time to review this project and hope to hear from you soon.